docs(contributing): Fix order of steps and details in release process doc (#4051)
Opentrons/opentrons: CONTRIBUTING.md

Our release process is still a work-in-progress. The app and API projects are currently versioned together to ensure interoperability.

> 1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want in this release, if any. If there are no buildroot changes, you don't have to create a new release; the last tag in buildroot is used for release builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in GitHub with all the changes you want in this release, if any. If there are no buildroot changes, you don't have to create a new release; the last tag in buildroot is used for release builds.
```

Our release process is still a work-in-progress. The app and API projects are currently versioned together to ensure interoperability.

1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want in this release

> 2. Make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):

Reviewer: This `release_*` advice is a little outdated given that we create tagged alpha build for all our RC builds and those tagged builds are signed. I think we should soften this naming scheme to a recommendation, given that we have the alpha tag instructions below.

We should also make it clear that this release branch should be created from `edge`

Author: Adding a note that it must be from `edge`, but leaving the guidance on release branch naming for now. We can soften that in a followup if we want, but it won't hurt to overly specify (also limiting scope of changes on this, since it's getting multiple iterations of comments)

> 2. Checkout `edge` and ake a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Checkout `edge` and make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):
```

> 2. Checkout `edge` and make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Checkout `edge` and make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name should match `release_*` to make `make bump` usage simpler):
```

11. Tag the release branch as an alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo qa: `git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}''` and `git push origin v${version}`
12. Run QA on this release. If issues are found, create prs targeted on the release branch. To create new alpha releases, repeat steps 4-11.
13. Once QA is a pass, bump to your target version with `make bump` (see below again)

> 14. Do a NORMAL MERGE into `master`. Do NOT squash or rebase. This should be done from your local command line: `git checkout master`, `git merge --ff-only release_${version}`, `git push origin master`. This will succeed as long as the release PR is reviewed and status checks have passed.

Reviewer: Could these instructions be moved to a shell block for readability?

14. Do a NORMAL MERGE into `master`. Do NOT squash or rebase. This should be done from your local command line. This will succeed as long as the release PR is reviewed and status checks have passed
    ```shell
    # note: make sure you have pulled the latest changes for branch 
    # release_${version} locally before merging into master
    git checkout master
    git merge --ff-only release_${version}
    git push origin master
    ```

> 15. Tag the release: `git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}'` and `git push origin v${version}`

Reviewer: Same shell block comment

> 16. Open a pr of `master` into `edge`. Give the PR a name like `chore(release): Merge changes from ${version} into edge`. Once it passes, on the command line merge it into `edge`: `git checkout edge`, `git pull`, `git merge --no-ff master`. Use the pr title for the merge commit title. You can then `git push origin edge`, which will succeed as long as the pr is approved and status checks pass.

Reviewer: Nitpick here and below: inconsistent capitalization of `PR`. Not introduced by this PR but would be nice to fix. Also these instructions would be easier to grok in a code block I think

13. Once QA is a pass, bump to the target release version (review [the section below](#make-bump-usage) again)
14. Do a NORMAL MERGE into `master`. Do NOT squash or rebase. This should be done from your local command line (and will succeed as long as the release PR is reviewed and status checks have passed):

```shell
# note: make sure you have pulled the latest changes for branch 
# release_${version} locally before merging into master
git checkout master
git merge --ff-only release_${version}
git push origin master
```

15. Tag the release: 

```bash
git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}'
git push origin v${version}
```

16. Open a PR of `master` into `edge`. Give the PR a name like `chore(release): Merge changes from ${version} into edge`. Once it passes, on the command line merge it into `edge`: 

```bash
git checkout edge
git pull
git merge --no-ff master
```

17. Use the PR title for the merge commit title. You can then `git push origin edge`, which will succeed as long as the PR is approved and status checks pass.

### Releasing Robot Software Stack Hotfixes

> 1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want to see

Reviewer: @sfoster1 is this applicable for a hotfix?

Reviewer 2: Yes absolutely. _everything_ should end up in edge. The only thing that differentiates a hotfix from a minor release is that because you want to get the fix out quickly, you want to minimize required qa by having the new release include _only_ the required change. Since releases originate in edge, problems in releases are by definition also problems in edge, and fixes should therefore always end up in edge eventually.

> 1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want to see

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want to see. If the hotfix does not require buildroot changes, you don't have to make a new buildroot release; the last tag will be used.
```

> 2. Make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):

Reviewer: A few things here:

- Same comment as above about tagged alpha builds doing the signing stuff, so branch naming doesn't matter
- By convention, we should recommend the branch name is something like `hotfix_*`
- This branch **must** be created from `master`, not `edge` (otherwise it isn't a hotfix)

> 2. Checkout `master` and make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name _must_ match `release_*` to trigger signed builds that can be used as RCs):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Checkout `master` and make a release branch, without any new changes (the branch name should match `hotfix_*` to make it apparent that it's a hotfix):
```

```shell

> git checkout -b release_${version}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git checkout -b hotfix_${version}
```

> git push --set-upstream origin release_${version}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git push --set-upstream origin hotfix_${version}
```

```

3. Target the hotfix PRs on this branch.

> 4. On the release branch, once the fixes have been merged, bump to the appropriate alpha version (read [the section below](#make-bump-usage) carefully)

Reviewer: There's a section in the make bump usage docs about whitelisting hotfix branches for version bumps, maybe call it out specifically here

   - Scope: `release`
   - Message: `${version}`
10. Gather reviews on changelogs and release notes until everybody is satisfied

> 11. Tag the release branch as an alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo qa:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Tag the release branch as an alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo QA:
```

   - Delete the sub-sections that relate only to alpha releases, so that the changelog is against the latest actual release
15. Do a NORMAL MERGE into `master`. Do NOT squash or rebase. This should be done from your local command line (and will succeed as long as the release PR is reviewed and status checks have passed):

```shell
# note: make sure you have pulled the latest changes for branch 
# release_${version} locally before merging into master
git checkout master
git merge --ff-only release_${version}
git push origin master
```

15. Tag the release: 

```shell
git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}'
git push origin v${version}
```

16. Open a PR of `master` into `edge`. Give the PR a name like `chore(release): Merge changes from ${version} into edge`. Once it passes, on the command line merge it into `edge`: 

```shell
git checkout edge
git pull
git merge --no-ff master
```

17. Use the PR title for the merge commit title. You can then `git push origin edge`, which will succeed as long as the PR is approved and status checks pass.

### Releasing Robot Software Stack Hotfixes

> 1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in github with all the changes you want to see, if any. If there aren't any, you don't have to create a new buildroot release; by default, the last tag is used for release builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you have a buildroot release created in GitHub with all the changes you want to see, if any. If there aren't any, you don't have to create a new buildroot release; by default, the last tag is used for release builds.
```

11. Tag the alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo qa: `git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}'` and `git push origin v${version}`
12. Run QA on this release. If issues are found, create prs targeted on the release branch. To create new alpha releases, repeat steps 4-11.
13. Once QA is a pass, bump to your target version with `make bump` (see below again)

> 14. Do a NORMAL MERGE into `master`. Do NOT squash or rebase. This should be done from your local command line: `git checkout master`, `git merge --ff-only release_${version}`, `git push origin master`. This will succeed as long as the release PR is reviewed and status checks have passed.

Reviewer: Same shell block comment

15. Tag the release: `git tag -a v${version} -m 'chore(release): ${version}'` and `git push origin v${version}`

> 16. Open a pr of `master` into `edge`. Give the PR a name like `chore(release): Merge changes from ${version} into edge`. Once it passes, on the command line merge it into `edge`: `git checkout edge`, `git pull`, `git merge --no-ff master`. Use the pr title for the merge commit title. You can then `git push origin edge`, which will succeed as long as the pr is approved and status checks pass.

Reviewer: Same inconsistent PR capitalization + shell block comment

   - Scope: `release`
   - Message: `${version}`
10. Push this commit

> 11. Tag the alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo qa:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Tag the alpha version; this is a release candidate that will undergo QA:
```
